# driver-drowsiness-detection
Accidents occur most frequently when a driver is sleepy, and this is true everywhere in the world. On an average 1200 road accidents record daily in India out of which 400 leads to direct death and rest gets effected badly. The major reason of these accidents is drowsiness caused by both sleep and alcohol. Due to driving for long time or intoxication, drivers might feel sleepy which is the biggest distraction for them while driving. This distraction might cost death of driver and other passengers in the vehicle and at the same time it also causes death of people in the other vehicles and pedestrians too. This mistake of one person on road would take their own life and also takes lives of other and put respective fam 	ilies in sorrow and tough situations. 
To prevent such accidents, we propose a system which alerts the driver if he/she feels drowsy. To accomplish this, we implement the solution using computer-vision based machine learning model. The driver’s face is detected by face recognition algorithm (Haar cascade classifier) continuously using a camera and the face of the driver is captured. The face of the driver is given as input to a classification algorithm which is trained with a data set of images of drowsy and non-drowsy faces. The algorithm uses landmark detection to classify the face as drowsy or not drowsy. If the driver’s face is drowsy, a voice alert is generated by the system. This alert can make the driver aware that he/she is feeling drowsy and the necessary actions can then be taken by the driver. This system can be used in any vehicle on the road to ensure safety of the people who are travelling and prevent accidents which are caused due to the drowsiness of the driver.
